## Language elements

#### Instructions and programs

The hardware system of a computer usually consists of five major components, including: arithmetic unit, controller, memory, input device and output device. Among them, the combination of the arithmetic unit and the controller is what we usually call the central processing unit, and its function is to execute various calculations and control instructions and process data in computer software. What we usually call a program is actually a collection of instructions. Our program is to organize a series of instructions together in a certain way, and then use these instructions to control the computer to do what we want it to do. The computers we use most of the time today, although their components are more and more sophisticated in workmanship and their processing power is getting stronger and stronger, they still belong to the ["von Neumann structure"](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E5%86%AF%C2%B7%E8%AF%BA%E4%BC%8A%E6%9B%BC%E7%BB%93%E6%9E%84) computer. There are two key points in the "Von Neumann structure". One is to separate the storage device from the central processing unit, and the other is to encode data in binary. Binary is a counting method of "every two to one", which is not substantially different from the "every ten to one" counting method used by us humans. Humans use the decimal system because they have ten fingers (because when counting After the ten fingers are used up, you can only carry. Of course, there are exceptions to everything. The Mayans may have counted their toes because they were barefoot for many years, so they used the 20-digit counting method. Under the guidance of this counting method, the Mayan calendar is different from the calendar we usually use. According to the Mayan calendar, 2012 is the last year of the last so-called "solar period", while 2013 is the new year. The beginning of the "Sun Period", and later this incident was misrepresented as "2012 is the end of the world predicted by the Mayans". Today we can boldly guess that the reason for the slow development of Maya civilization is probably related to the use of decimal notation). For computers, binary is the easiest to implement on physical devices (high voltage means 1, low voltage means 0), so computers in the "von Neumann structure" use binary. Although we don't need every programmer to be able to work in a binary way of thinking, it is still useful to understand binary and its conversion relationship with the decimal system in our lives, as well as the conversion relationship between binary and octal and hexadecimal. necessary. If you are not familiar with this, you can use [Wikipedia](https://zh.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E4%BA%8C%E8%BF%9B%E5%88%B6) or [Baidu Encyclopedia] (https://baike.baidu.com) popular science.

> **Explanation**: The recent research on **quantum computer** has been pushed to the forefront. Quantum computers perform calculations based on quantum mechanics and use quantum teleportation to transmit information. In June 2018, Intel announced that it had developed a new quantum chip and passed the test in an environment near absolute zero; in 2019, both IBM and Google launched their own quantum computers.

### Variables and Types

In programming, a variable is a carrier for storing data. The variable in the computer is the actual data or a piece of memory space for storing data in the memory. The value of the variable can be read and modified, which is the basis of all calculations and control. There are many types of data that computers can process. In addition to numerical values, they can also process various data such as text, graphics, audio, and video. Then different data need to define different storage types. There are many data types in Python, and it also allows us to customize new data types (this will be discussed later), let's introduce several commonly used data types first.

- Integer: Python can handle integers of any size (there are two types of integers `int` and `long` in Python 2.x, but this distinction is of little significance to Python, so in Python 3.x Integer is only int), and supports binary (such as `0b100`, converted to decimal is 4), octal (such as `0o100`, converted to decimal is 64), decimal (`100`) and hexadecimal system (`0x100`, converted to decimal is 256) notation.
- Floating-point type: Floating-point numbers are also decimal numbers. The reason why they are called floating-point numbers is that when expressed in scientific notation, the position of the decimal point of a floating-point number is variable. In addition to mathematical notation (such as `123.456`), floating-point numbers In addition, scientific notation (such as `1.23456e2`) is supported.
- String type: a string is any text enclosed in single or double quotes, such as `'hello'` and `"hello"`, there are also raw string notation, byte string notation, Unicode string representation, and can be written in multi-line form (start with three single quotes or three double quotes, end with three single quotes or three double quotes).
- Boolean type: Boolean values only have two values `True` and `False`, either `True` or `False`, in Python, `True`, `False` can be used directly to represent Boolean values (please note case), can also be calculated by Boolean operations (e.g. `3 < 5` will produce the Boolean value `True`, and `2 == 1` will produce the Boolean value `False`).
- Complex number type: the shape is `3+5j`, which is the same as the complex number representation in mathematics, the only difference is that `i` of the imaginary part is replaced by `j`. In fact, this type is not commonly used, you just need to understand it.

#### Variable naming

For each variable we need to give it a name, just as each of us has our own famous name. In Python, variable naming needs to follow the following hard rules and non-hard rules that are strongly recommended.

- Hard rules:
   - The variable name consists of letters (generalized Unicode characters, excluding special characters), numbers and underscores, and numbers cannot start with them.
   - Case sensitive (uppercase `a` and lowercase `A` are two different variables).
   - Do not conflict with keywords (words with special meanings, which will be discussed later) and system reserved words (such as names of functions, modules, etc.).
- PEP 8 requires:
   - Spelled in lowercase letters, with multiple words joined by underscores.
   - Protected instance attributes start with a single underscore (described later).
   - Private instance attributes start with two underscores (described later).

Of course, as a professional programmer, it is also very important to be familiar with the names when naming variables (in fact, all identifiers).

#### Use of variables

Here are a few examples to illustrate the types of variables and the use of variables.

```Python
"""
Use variables to hold data and perform addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division operations

Version: 0.1
Author: Luo Hao
"""
a = 321
b = 12
print(a + b) # 333
print(a - b) # 309
print(a * b) # 3852
print(a / b) # 26.75
```

In Python, you can use the `type` function to check the type of a variable. The concept of function in programming is consistent with the concept of function in mathematics. I believe everyone is familiar with functions in mathematics. It includes function names, independent variables and dependent variables. It doesn't matter if you don't understand this concept for the time being, we will explain the definition and use of functions in subsequent chapters.

```Python
"""
Check the type of a variable using type()

Version: 0.1
Author: Luo Hao
"""
a = 100
b = 12.345
c = 1 + 5j
d = 'hello, world'
e = True
print(type(a)) # <class 'int'>
print(type(b)) # <class 'float'>
print(type(c)) # <class 'complex'>
print(type(d)) # <class 'str'>
print(type(e)) # <class 'bool'>
```

Variable types can be converted using built-in functions in Python.

- `int()`: Convert a value or string to an integer, and you can specify the base.
- `float()`: Convert a string to a floating point number.
- `str()`: Convert the specified object into a string form, and the encoding can be specified.
- `chr()`: Convert an integer to a string (one character) corresponding to the encoding.
- `ord()`: Convert a string (one character) to the corresponding encoding (integer).

The following code implements arithmetic operations on two integers by entering two integers through the keyboard.

```Python
"""
Use the input() function to get keyboard input (string)
Use the int() function to convert the input string to an integer
Use the print() function to output a string with placeholders

Version: 0.1
Author: Luo Hao
"""
a = int(input('a = '))
b = int(input('b = '))
print('%d + %d = %d' % (a, b, a + b))
print('%d - %d = %d' % (a, b, a - b))
print('%d * %d = %d' % (a, b, a * b))
print('%d / %d = %f' % (a, b, a / b))
print('%d // %d = %d' % (a, b, a // b))
print('%d %% %d = %d' % (a, b, a % b))
print('%d ** %d = %d' % (a, b, a ** b))
```

> **Explanation**: The string output in the above print function uses placeholder syntax, where `%d` is a placeholder for integers, `%f` is a placeholder for decimals, `%%` Indicates a percent sign (because the percent sign represents a placeholder, so the percent sign must be written as `%%` in a string with a placeholder), and the variable value followed by `%` after the string will be Replace the placeholder and output it to the terminal, run the above program, and see the execution result of the program.

### Operators

Python supports a variety of operators. The following table roughly lists all operators in order of priority from high to low. The priority of an operator refers to what operation to do first and then to do it when multiple operators appear at the same time. what operation. In addition to the assignment operators and arithmetic operators we have used before, we will talk about the use of other operators later.

| operator | description |
| -------------------------------------------------- ----------- | ------------------------------|
| `[]` `[:]` | subscript, slice |
| `**` | index |
| `~` `+` `-` | bitwise negation, sign |
| `*` `/` `%` `//` | multiplication, division, modulo, integer division |
| `+` `-` | add, subtract |
| `>>` `<<` | move right, move left |
| `&` | bitwise AND |
| `^` `\|` | bitwise XOR, bitwise OR |
| `<=` `<` `>` `>=` | less than or equal to, less than, greater than, greater than or equal to |
| `==` `!=` | equal to, not equal to |
| `is` `is not` | Identity operators |
| `in` `not in` | membership operator |
| `not` `or` `and` | logical operators |
| `=` `+=` `-=` `*=` `/=` `%=` `//=` `**=` `&=` `|=` `^=` `>>= ` `<<=` | (compound) assignment operator |

>**Description:** In actual development, if you do not know the precedence of operators, you can use parentheses to ensure the execution order of operations.

#### assignment operator

The assignment operator should be the most common operator, and its role is to assign the value on the right to the variable on the left. The following example demonstrates the use of assignment operators and compound assignment operators.

```Python
"""
Assignment Operators and Compound Assignment Operators

Version: 0.1
Author: Luo Hao
"""
a = 10
b = 3
a += b # equivalent to: a = a + b
a *= a + 2 # equivalent to: a = a * (a + 2)
print(a) # Calculate what will be output here
```

### Comparison and Logical Operators

Some comparison operators are also called relational operators, including `==`, `!=`, `<`, `>`, `<=`, `>=`, I believe there is nothing to explain, Everyone can understand it at a glance. The only thing that needs to be reminded is that `==` is used to compare equality. Please note that there are two equal signs in this place, because `=` is an assignment operator, as we just mentioned above,` ==` is the comparison operator that compares equality. Comparison operators produce boolean values, either `True` or `False`.

There are three logical operators, namely `and`, `or` and `not`. `and` literally means "and", so the `and` operator will connect two Boolean values, if both Boolean values are `True`, then the result of the operation is `True`; the left and right Boolean values have a It is `False`, and the final operation result is `False`. I believe everyone has already thought of it, if the Boolean value on the left of `and` is `False`, no matter what the Boolean value on the right is, the final result will be `False`, so the value on the right will be skipped when doing calculations ( Short-circuiting), which means that if the left side of the `and` operator is `False`, the expression on the right side will not be executed at all. `or` literally means "or", so the `or` operator will also connect two Boolean values, if any of the two Boolean values is `True`, then the final result is `True`. Of course, the `or` operator also has a short-circuit function. When the Boolean value on its left is `True`, the expression on the right will not be executed at all. The `not` operator will be followed by a Boolean value, and its function is to get the opposite value of the Boolean value, that is, if the following Boolean value is `True`, the result of the operation is `False`, and the following If the Boolean value is `False`, the result of the operation is `True`.

```Python
"""
Use of Comparison Operators and Logical Operators

Version: 0.1
Author: Luo Hao
"""
flag0 = 1 == 1
flag1 = 3 > 2
flag2 = 2 < 1
flag3 = flag1 and flag2
flag4 = flag1 or flag2
flag5 = not (1 != 2)
print('flag0 =', flag0) # flag0 = True
print('flag1 =', flag1) # flag1 = True
print('flag2 =', flag2) # flag2 = False
print('flag3 =', flag3) # flag3 = False
print('flag4 =', flag4) # flag4 = True
print('flag5 =', flag5) # flag5 = False
```

> **Explanation**: The priority of comparison operators is higher than that of assignment operators, so `flag0 = 1 == 1` first does `1 == 1` to generate the Boolean value `True`, and then assigns this value to the variable `flag0`. The `print` function can output multiple values, which can be separated by `,`, and the output content is separated by spaces by default.

### practise

#### Exercise 1: Converting Fahrenheit to Celsius.

> Tip: The conversion formula from Fahrenheit to Celsius is: $C=(F - 32) \div 1.8$.

Reference answer:

```Python
"""
Convert Fahrenheit to Celsius

Version: 0.1
Author: Luo Hao
"""
f = float(input('Please enter the temperature in Fahrenheit: '))
c = (f - 32) / 1.8
print('%.1f degrees Fahrenheit = %.1f degrees Celsius' % (f, c))
```

> **Explanation**: When using the `print` function to output, the string content can also be formatted. The string `%.1f` in the above `print` function is a placeholder, which will be discussed later Replace it by a variable value of type `float`. Similarly, if there is `%d` in the string, it can be replaced by a variable value of type `int` later, and `%s` will be replaced by the value of the string. In addition to this way of formatting strings, you can also format strings in the following way, where `{f:.1f}` and `{c:.1f}` can be seen as `{f} ` and `{c}`, indicating that the two placeholders will be replaced with the values of the variable `f` and the variable `c` during output, and the following `:.1f` indicates that this is a floating-point number, which is reserved after the decimal point 1 significant figure.
>
> ```Python
> print(f'{f:.1f} degrees Fahrenheit = {c:.1f} degrees Celsius')
> ```

#### Exercise 2: Enter the radius of a circle to calculate the circumference and area.

Reference answer:

```Python
"""
Enter the radius to calculate the circumference and area of a circle

Version: 0.1
Author: Luo Hao
"""
radius = float(input('Please enter the radius of the circle: '))
perimeter = 2 * 3.1416 * radius
area = 3.1416 * radius * radius
print('perimeter: %.2f' % perimeter)
print('area: %.2f' % area)
```

#### Exercise 3: Enter the year to determine whether it is a leap year.

Reference answer:

```Python
"""
Input the year and output True if it is a leap year, otherwise output False

Version: 0.1
Author: Luo Hao
"""
year = int(input('Please enter the year: '))
# If the code is too long to write in one line and it is not easy to read, you can use \ to wrap the code
is_leap = year % 4 == 0 and year % 100 != 0 or \
           year % 400 == 0
print(is_leap)
```

> **Explanation**: The comparison operator will generate Boolean values, and the logical operators `and` and `or` will combine these Boolean values, and finally get a Boolean value, output `True` in leap years, and output in normal years` False`.
